Mobile Powerless ChagerQico-Chaggerl I . '
Mobile Powerless Charger(mico—Charger)
Designed by: Aaron Yankey Antwi 
Idea date: 2009 
Contact: +233204244772

Claims

1. PiC can generate power (>=5W) to charge low-power consumer mobile electronics some of which include but are not limited to, mobile phones, tablets and laptops.

2. PiC does NOT require any external source of electric power for its operation, it only requires the user to be in a moving vehicle.

4. PiC is a environment friendly because it does not generate pollutants.

5. As long as the Pic is operating within its‘nominal operating regions and conditions, it is guaranteed to produce the rated power WITHOUT FUEL

Design (Description)

The Mobile Powerless Charger consists of the following subsystems:

1.The turbine or propeller assembly 

2.The generator  

3.The control system

4.The grip assembly

5.The housing 

6.The Backup battery 

7.The software interface 

1. The turbine assembly 
This consists of the blades and shaft linkages which are pivoted in the housing and connected to the generator.  Air rushes in from the housing's air intake at the speed which is approximately equal to the Speed of the vehicle, and spins the turbines. The torque produced by the turbines propel the generator amateur shaft which sits the field of permanent magnet. The resultant energy is a pure DC electric energy that is used for charging.

2. The generator
This is a DC generator made of permanent magnets and an amateur winding and which converts the mechanical energy from the shaft into electric energy. Permanent magnets are used to provide a permanent source of magnetic field to induce electricity on the ' amateur windings and produce electricity when the turbines spin. 

3. The control system 

The electricity that is generated by the generator is unregulated hence, part of the controllers' function is to regulate the electrical energy from the generator to provide the rated energy for the mobile devices. Another key function of the controller is to interface the charger to the mobile device itself to provide a means for the user to control the device from his/her mobile device. Also, the controller regulates the charging of backup battery and the mobile device and the grip mechanism of charger.
Ultimately, the controller controls the entire operation of the charger.

4.  The Grip assembly 

In order to provide convenient means to mount the charger on the vehicle, the grip assembly which is an electromagnet, generates a magnetic flux which is used to magnetize the charger to the vehicle and demagnetize it when the need arises by sending the appropriate commands from the mobile device to the controller of the charger. It is also aided by a mechanical hook for more grip.

5. The housing

This is the mechanical structure that binds the rest of the subsystems together to enable rigidity and enhance the operation of the charger. It consists of a cylindrical hallow Structure that is opened at both ends; the inlet and the outlet. Air is ushered in through the inlet and its inherent energy is used to turn the turbine which in turn turns the electric generator.
Finally, the air is ushered out through the outlet of the housing.

6. Back-up battery

Since not all of the energy produced can be stored in the  mobile device, the controller smartly transfers this energy into the battery for future use


